<!-- title: Bergi-Directed work, initial thoughts -->

__Documentation & intro tutorial to using `rdf-ext`__

## Preparation

Ok, pre-start Bergi questions. All composed by me not ChatGPT, which would have saved shitloads of time, but right now I'm offline. I'll overthink it here, Just Do It, ignore this as testable tickboxes.

I think Bergi & I have a very, very similar view of these kinds of things from a high orbit satellite. But I rarely approach projects from an optimal angle. There are bound to be more efficient *Street Views* that I haven't seen, Bergi will be clearer. Remember to ask a lot of questions.

So,

* Q1, a one-line hand-wavy abstract on how best to approach this  
* Q2, target audience
* Q3, how *is* this stuff useful? **USP?** (Bergi's sentences, not mine)

Yeah, the USP. Most devs that see this kind of stuff will be predisposed to viewing it as Yet Another Framework. After 20+ years of using these approaches, I still struggle to communicate the fundamentals.





1. look at what's available in code & docs, have a play, learn it myself (maybe plop it into one of my existing toys), note any problems I have
2. identify a use case that will show off features
3. demo talk through - as many media as possible
4.

Need a simple use case.

* solves a real-world problem
* very easy to write the requirements, tickboxes
* would be doable with a trad system, like PHP+MySQL or desktop app
* is easier/enhanced by using the web/linked data stack
* don't scare the horses
