Ideal School Curriculum

I dunno. Yes, I'm predisposed to STEM. But if I had to set up a kid's curriculum today, I think I'd angle it slightly differently. Yes, STEM. But with a big emphasis on the Maths. With computing.

 Add a very strong English. Not the way I/we were taught. Not sure I'd include any foreign languages, bring that under the English umbrella, global language, etymology. Maybe call it Language.
I'd actually thin down the science to being one integrated subject (pumping Earth sciences, environment) maybe call it Reality (not joking). 
Another umbrella subject, covering international history, politics, philosophy, RE (!) and everything including media & celebrities, call it Culture.
On the engineering side, I'd want to bring in what I had (fairly badly) as woodwork & metalwork, the hands-on angle. Where the engineering crosses over with DIY, life skills.
And Creative. Art, music, writing. 
I'd probably pump music quite high there because it's not rich around abstract thought but there's also the affordances involved in learning an instrument, interacting with the environment.
PE? Bugger that. The kids should be out playing in the streets.

Hmm. Is a good question :)


id: 10ff91dce26d460a992053aec96d8141
parent_id: 66f78a63b70a46689703e9e445ab40bd
created_time: 2022-09-21T09:30:11.512Z
updated_time: 2022-09-21T09:30:31.890Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 44.10947530
longitude: 10.41354650
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2022-09-21T09:30:11.512Z
user_updated_time: 2022-09-21T09:30:31.890Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
type_: 1