Buying advice

Budget buys, my experience

A couple of days ago Ok-Commission-5296 asked about getting something $250-300 range. 

As a total beginner, a year ago, hadn't a clue. Asked Silvano, who is the landlord of my favourite bar, also the conductor of the local Alpine Filarmonica orchestra, lots of clarinets. I was hoping he knew someone had an old one to sell, but nah. (It should be noted that rural Italians really don't do secondhand anything). He recommended getting a Chinese one to start with.

I did that. Not unreasonable advice, was good enough to get started. Once I'd figured out reeds are important, got reasonable sounds.

A year later (just gone) my girlfriend asked me what I wanted for Xmas. I went on eBay, found a Buffet Crampon B12 for €100 - that!
Obvious risk buying from eBay, but looked ok. 
Turned out to be wonderful.

But, the mouthpiece, not exactly too dented or worn, still made me wonder.
Following advice (mostly from here) I impulse-bought a new Yamaha 4C from Amazon.
Just yeah!

I was struggling a bit with reeds. Ignorance, lack of experience. But still went from 2.0 to 2.5. But the consistency, eek. Someone here said the plastic ones are ok. So I got a Legere 2.75 (not cheap, plan ahead). Clarion got easier.

That was usable, just (high pressure), on the Chinese. On this Buffet, much better.
But the Buffet mouthpiece, the 'thumbnail' part, right at the tip, ever so thin. In comparison the Yamaha mouthpiece has a relatively wide area. The gap about the same, ~1mm. The curve is also much closer to that of the reed. Something for it to hit against! 
Notably less air required. I'm still adjusting, but my attempts at altissimo seem a lot more reasonable now.

No way I'm going to be skipping to being professional any time soon. But for someone that wants to enjoy the thing without paying megabucks, I reckon I've finally landed on my feet.

Net-net, I'd recommend exactly what I did (a year in). Good quality brand (Buffet, Selmer, Yamaha..?). Secondhand. New mouthpiece. Think about reeds.

id: 1b1697cc77f647eba5007d3b96954198
parent_id: abb7d559126c4135b19e434e94457eed
created_time: 2023-02-07T16:45:44.736Z
updated_time: 2023-02-07T16:45:59.195Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 44.14908500
longitude: 10.38775833
altitude: 455.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1675788344734
user_created_time: 2023-02-07T16:45:44.736Z
user_updated_time: 2023-02-07T16:45:59.195Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
type_: 1