id: 39f122cd5d284f71815800b3919baa8d
parent_id: 
item_type: 1
item_id: 7a684442fc114e14a6fc5aaa5b2ac52f
item_updated_time: 1695068397995
title_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"Climbing wall\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":13}]"
body_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"Muro per arrampicata indoor in Pieve!\\\n\\\nA climbing wall just opened in Pieve Fosciana (where we do our shopping, have coffees). Open Day today. Really nice setup, friendly folks.\\\n\\\nSlightly surreal, I've been wanting a go on one of these for a while, then one arrives in a small village virtually on the doorstep.\\\n\\\nVery surreal, they had a *Moonboard*. Designed by Ben Moon, has his name on the front. About 40 years ago I lived in a shared house, Hunter House Road, Sheffield. Ben used to kip on the couch. It was a notorious climber's doss, easy reach of the crags in the Peak. Total depravity - with some of the best climbers on the planet strewn on the floor. Ben was/is a really nice bloke, strong on the environment & animal rights, possibly the first vegan I ever met.\\\n\\\nA couple of years back I bought a rope & some basic gear to go up it so I could trim some trees in the field. I had tried rock climbing a couple of times, way back when, but found I preferred sex and drugs and rock and roll. \\\nAs an old man I enjoyed climbing trees. Fancied a go at rock again, bought some shoes & a chalk bag, put some bolts in Black Rock, pratted around a bit. \\\n\\\nAt the wall, only a handful of people, half very young girls. Two blokes, a woman and one of the young girls were clearly very good. I was asked if I wanted some shoes. Nah, got some thanks. You could see a \\\"ooh, is he any good?\\\" crossing their minds. Which lasted until I tried something.\\\nUseless! Luckily I've been vaccinated against embarrassment, lots of boosters.\\\n\\\nI thought I might have problems because of lack of strength. I'm not unfit, good weight for my height, do a fair bit of manual stuff, dog walk every day. But intentional physical training of any kind, just nah. \\\nTurned out my general strength was fine, well, er, actually untested. My coordination, balance and technique were so bad I didn't get far enough for muscles to be much involved (except for fingers - ow!).\\\n\\\nDid enjoy it though. I'll see the little girls leaving me in the dust as a challenge. I notice they do lessons...\\\n\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":2058}]"
metadata_diff: {"new":{"user_data":"","master_key_id":"","conflict_original_id":"","share_id":"","is_shared":0,"application_data":"","source_application":"net.cozic.joplin-mobile","source":"joplin","is_todo":0,"markup_language":1,"order":1695068378835,"latitude":"44.14926833","longitude":"10.38770833","todo_completed":0,"altitude":"487.1000","parent_id":"f3968a7606014304b10996acb8b17bb5","source_url":"","id":"7a684442fc114e14a6fc5aaa5b2ac52f","todo_due":0,"author":""},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2023-09-18T20:20:03.214Z
created_time: 2023-09-18T20:20:03.214Z
type_: 13