id: 57ca9b34f03e4f06b843c158c7a9a826
parent_id: 
item_type: 1
item_id: c3f41925a6f24b3dbf5f68fd301cc0a6
item_updated_time: 1674494607766
title_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"Vocal treatment \"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":16}]"
body_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"I have been recording and mixing vocals for commercial and sync music for over a decade, here's what I like to do:\\\n\\\n1. get the best recording possible with the least amount of room reflections, specially in the low mids (it's best to avoid foam treatment and reflections filters because of this)\\\n2. edit the vocals super well, I don't like to remove breaths on the lead vocals as this sound weird and unnatural to me but I do like to remove them from the background vocals\\\n3. use de-noising/room noise suppression if it's still a problem, I like to use UA C-vox for this but there are other good native alternatives, even simple gating can sometimes do the trick or at least help\\\n4. use de-clicking for all the random clicks and mouth pops in the recording, these can seriously cause problems after you get things super compressed and bright for pop vocals\\\n5. tune the vocals after the de-noising and gating, I know some people like to do it after the dynamics/eq but this makes no sense to me, I don't want the tuning to be messing around with any of the harmonics that I'm adding later or on the dynamic processing\\\n6. do basic broad stroke EQ before compression, I usually just highpass and maybe cut some low mids at this point if the vocals call for it\\\n7. compress with an 1176 style compressor or something else capable of ultra-fast attack (0.02 ms) and super fast release (50 ms)\\\n8. use multiband compression to even out the resonant areas of the vocals that move around a lot while changing pitches, intensity, etc. I usually have 4 bands which completely depend on the vocals but they're usually kinda sorta somewhere around 100-500hz, 500-2khz, 2kz-7khz and 7khz-20khz, I like to have the fastest attack for the top two bands to minimize any popping or clicking sounds\\\n9. use dynamic EQ to do the more precise EQ moves needed for balancing the vocals and taming the essess\\\n10. use soothe 2 to do the final smoothing and de-essing, I usually only do this with vocals that I didn't record and that were recorded with more budget equipment which tends to not be so smooth in the top end\\\n11. add a little bit of widening to the lead vocals, this makes vocals sound more natural to me but can also be a nice effect if there's no vocal double\\\n12. do essentially the same processing for the background vocals but with a lot more de-essing\\\n13. shape the background vocals to fit the sound I'm going for, sometimes I just cut out  a bit of the highs if the esses are still getting too much in the way of the lead vocals or maybe give the background vocals more of a radio-esque effect, sometimes with some added saturation, etc. I can get really creative with this so I like to change things up if I can\\\n14. add delay and reverb to fit the track, I usually just put them straight on the vocals or a vocals group but sometimes make sends using group FX in Live, for delay I like using ducking most of the time and also if using a send then I like to put reverb on the delay or send the delay to the reverb send if I'm using traditional sends\\\n15. shaping the reverb with EQ or the reverb settings to cut a lot of the highs and lows, I usually use Pro-R or the UAD Lexicon reverbs which give me enough control, but if I need to put the reverb on a send and EQ then I will do that\\\n16. try different options to see which effects sound the best, there's no rules to what type of delay or reverb you need to use so I experiment with a few different options and choose what sounds good for the track\\\n17. get creative, cut out all the reverbs and delay for certain parts, distort some parts, add delay or reverb throws, put some of the background vocals or maybe even entire vocal section though a radio/lo-fi effect or a super small room reverb, etc. etc. etc.\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":3753}]"
metadata_diff: {"new":{"master_key_id":"","conflict_original_id":"","share_id":"","is_shared":0,"application_data":"","source_application":"net.cozic.joplin-mobile","source":"joplin","is_todo":0,"markup_language":1,"order":1674494593596,"latitude":"0.00000000","longitude":"0.00000000","todo_completed":0,"altitude":"0.0000","parent_id":"f801c5f8f9df468892d0206c2fadb462","source_url":"","id":"c3f41925a6f24b3dbf5f68fd301cc0a6","todo_due":0,"author":""},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2023-01-23T17:23:33.072Z
created_time: 2023-01-23T17:23:33.072Z
type_: 13