A plan

From overwhelmed to productive: my number one hack to beat procrastination (hope it helps!)

As a music producer, it's pretty common to feel overwhelmed as there’s so many different aspects to take care of through the process.   
That can very quickly lead to procrastination, which of course makes you feel even worse about yourself, your creativity dies off, and before you know it, you are stuck.   
If you feel that way sometimes, you are not alone.   
I’ve been there for a pretty long time before starting to produce professionally so today I wanted to share what really made a difference for me.  
More than a simple trick, it's an actual shift in perspective that really allowed me to finish tracks more consistently and with almost no stress compared to where I was before.

So let’s get down to it:

Here’s my main suggestion: create a solid step by step process that works for yourself and that you can follow each single time, from start to finish of a song, then stick with it.

Don’t mix up different parts of the process.  
Divide your process in phases and try to use it as a roadmap each single time.  
One of my favorite quotes is: sometimes you don’t lack focus, you just lack clarity. 

Production is such a wide topic and it’s absolutely normal for the brain to be overwhelmed and to just want to drop a session and move to the next one, if you are trying to focus on everything at once.

For example I see people who first do some sound design, then some composition, then a bit of mixing, then some sound design again, then some arrangement, then some more mixing and so on... And so their brain is like: “yoo, what’s happening? This is too much for me, I’m out!”

The issue with not having a step by step process and not taking care of each single aspect separately is that your brain will be constantly trying to guess what’s the next thing it needs to take care of, and this will lead to confusion, stress and anxiety (and overall overwhelm).

It’s like having to go somewhere in town without knowing the itinerary, it’s stressful and you have to guess at each single turn. If you ever had to find a destination without a GPS in an unknown city in the middle of a traffic jam you know what I’m talking about!

On the contrary, if you can just turn on your gps, your analytic brain can just relax and you can put on some music and enjoy the ride. 

It’s the same with music production. By developing a solid process for yourself you will have something that the monkey mind can focus on and this will take a lot of the stress off your shoulders.

If it can help, I can sum up my own process, here it is (more or less): 

1 - I always come up with a complete musical idea first;   
If I’m using samples and loops I make sure what I’m doing is musically complete (if I start with a vocal sample I will still make sure there is a chord progression that complements it for example). I want to have a main theme that can work for my track.  
Basically, I take care of the composition first.

2 - I really focus on selecting and designing solid sounds.  
I want my sounds to be epic at this stage already: full, wide, punchy, clear, loud etc.   
I don’t want to end up in the mix having to now make my song sound good; I prefer to get that out of the way at the source, designing my single elements properly from the start.

3 - I take care of vertical arrangement and layering.   
This is one of the most creative phases where I add instruments and elements (including drums) and fill up the vertical space I have available (octaves or spectrum).  
I then layer where needed to make sure I have a wide, huge sounding 8 bar loop that can stand out against pro tracks in the same genre.  
At this stage (and at the sound design one) I’m really crafting the sonic architecture of my track with the exact final result I want to hear in the master in mind.

4 - I automate multiple parameters on most tracks to make sure my production sounds more alive.

5 - Once my 8 or 16 bars loop is complete, I move onto my 2nd and 3rd section and run the same exact process (coherently with the first section I have created), I basically start arranging horizontally.   
The idea here is creating as much contrast as possible between the sections while still making them relevant to each other.   
This way people will stay engaged throughout the track as they’ll have something different to listen to.

6 - I add transitions, sound FX and ear candy to make the track flow even better and to make it even more captivating to the ear.

7 - Once I have all sections of my track down I scan it from start to finish and fix all the little things that pop out to my ear. 

At that point I’m ready to export the stems for my own mixing project (which I do separately, to have a fresh and clear perspective as to what I need to do).

And this is a very quick overview of my process, you don’t need to use the same exact things but my suggestion for today is, especially if you struggle with overwhelm and procrastination, make it easier for yourself: Define your process, break it down in smaller chunks and allow your brain to focus on one thing at a time.  
Only worry about the next step once you know you have the previous one down!

This should make it easier and allow you to relax and find that creative joy again, hope this helps, let me know what you think about it in the comments :)

id: f6411c31993d4a1e840fae3c7c7e0792
parent_id: f801c5f8f9df468892d0206c2fadb462
created_time: 2023-02-20T19:52:37.137Z
updated_time: 2023-02-20T19:52:48.973Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 44.14919500
longitude: 10.38806667
altitude: 439.5000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1676922757132
user_created_time: 2023-02-20T19:52:37.137Z
user_updated_time: 2023-02-20T19:52:48.973Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
type_: 1