id: 0e8b8a4664754128bc846f9e07b48561
parent_id: 
item_type: 1
item_id: 4d77b15c4a8a47999ccde085ff22c646
item_updated_time: 1682792285346
title_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"Break\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":5}]"
body_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"\\\n\\\ntaking in more/less mouthpiece should only be done if you are always putting too little/too much mouthpiece in your mouth, regardless of which pitches you're playing. \\\n\\\nusing more embouchure pressure is again, only a valid solution if you normally use too little embouchure pressure across the whole horn.\\\n\\\ninstead, the upper registers should be stabilised by changing your voicing vowel. in the chalumeau register we use \\\"eh\\\" as the basic voicing vowel, for the clarion register we use \\\"ee\\\", and for the altissimo register the back of the tongue is so high that it's like hissing. moving to higher voicing causes our airspeed increase which forces the reed to vibrate faster. \\\n\\\n\\\nCame here to say basically this.\\\n\\\nThe number one problem I see in students who struggle with crossing the break is that the entire face tenses up. Like your brain assumes you won't get those notes out unless it *squeezes* everything.\\\n\\\nThe problem with this is that the masseter (the cheek muscle that makes your jaw close) is one of the strongest muscles in the body per square inch. So even a little extra tension leads to a lot of biting.\\\n\\\nTry this:\\\n\\\n* Play low E (allll the way down there below the staff). Focus on feeling a nice, loose, wide column of air the goes from the bottom of your lungs up through your throat and all the way through the bell of the instrument. You really want that to feel like one full, open, continuous air stream.\\\n\\\n* Once you can do that consistently, do it, and roll your thumb onto the register key *without changing your face or posture at all.* This is hard at first! You'll probably feel your face tense up even though you don't want to! That's normal! \\\n\\\n* You can do this with all the other notes too - low F to above the break C, G to D, etc.\\\n\\\n* As it gets easier to do this slowly, start doing it faster. As it gets easier to do faster, start tonguing the notes as you switch.\\\n\\\nThe weird upside to having braces is that your face nerves are a lot more sensitive to pressure changes, because they feel your braces when it happens. So you have a really good onboard \\\"warning system\\\" right now for when you're tensing your face instead of using your air.\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":2175}]"
metadata_diff: {"new":{"master_key_id":"","conflict_original_id":"","share_id":"","is_shared":0,"application_data":"","source_application":"net.cozic.joplin-mobile","source":"joplin","is_todo":0,"markup_language":1,"order":1673991534400,"latitude":"0.00000000","longitude":"0.00000000","todo_completed":0,"altitude":"0.0000","parent_id":"8a005c647cf34984a1b18ebef883220e","source_url":"","id":"4d77b15c4a8a47999ccde085ff22c646","todo_due":0,"author":""},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2023-04-30T14:53:59.102Z
created_time: 2023-04-30T14:53:59.102Z
type_: 13