Vanilla We

When I saw 'vanilla web' I first assumed it meant without browser-side Javascript at all...

While there are clearly many situations where doing a lot of work at the client makes sense, it's hard to ignore the fact that sometimes HTML+CSS+HTTP alone might be a better option.
Server-side, even for 'static' sites you still need something to fulfil requests, even if that is just to pull docs from the filesystem. But often, there too it seems common to adopt a whole ecosystem no matter how much is actually needed.
Dunno, it does seem that where and how the work gets done is often more about fashion than any technical requirements.

Ok, so nowadays frameworks are everywhere, and when what is required is a mostly browser-local app, they do make a lot of sense. But it is worth considering the role the web is actually playing - quite often it seems like it's only used as an app distribution tool. 

I'm not suggesting there's anything inherently wrong with that, just that there's still a lot of underused potential for the web as an information space. I've no doubt that there are a lot of expert typescript/react/angular developers around that haven't even heard of Linked Data.

id: 15b54092ede748019f3ca82b03b63c7c
parent_id: 66f78a63b70a46689703e9e445ab40bd
created_time: 2022-11-16T13:08:05.895Z
updated_time: 2022-11-16T13:08:16.228Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1668604085894
user_created_time: 2022-11-16T13:08:05.895Z
user_updated_time: 2022-11-16T13:08:16.228Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
type_: 1