Drum and Bass

## drums

snare has fundamental pitch around 150-250hz, plus white noise for the “snare” vibrating.  kick fundamental is 40-80hz, no snare noise.  otherwise you’re right though, they are pretty similar because the physics of smacking a drum are the same in both.

https://www.powerdrumkit.com/

https://reverb.com/ca/software/samples-and-loops/reverb/3514-reverb-drum-machines-the-complete-collection

https://www.sweetwater.com/insync/making-kick-drum-bass-line-sit-nicely-together-mix/#:~:text=The%20frequency%20range%20of%20the,information%20at%203000%20to%204000Hz.

Kick Drum Frequencies
30 – 80 Hz  – fundamental tone
300 – 600 Hz – boxiness (cut here)
4 – 8 kHz – Click
Above 5 kHz – bleed from cymbals (cut here)

Bass Frequencies
30 – 100 Hz – thickness of synth sub-bass
50 – 150 Hz – thickness of bass guitar
150 – 400 Hz – muddy range of bass
800 – 2 kHz – clarity and presence for bass

Not many kicks have a huge amount of bass in DnB. For starters, the sub of DnB kicks is a bit higher than kicks from other EDM (40hz to around 70/80hz). You will be able to tell if your kick is good for DnB if it has a solid sound around 70 to 80 hertz; if you like the punch of a kick but it doesn't have that feature, try layering one that does underneath it.

But the other side of it is definitely getting a good balance in the mix; if you can get the kick to stand out without sidechaining it to the bass, you shouldn't have many problems. You want the transient of the kick to stand out but the low end of the kick to sound good together with the bass - neither should be overpowering the other.

Like many have said before, the most important part about doing drums/percussion is selecting the right sample from the start. Listen carefully to kicks from other DnB tracks and keep those tracks handy when you're browsing for a kick to use so you can listen as a reference.

---

Why Putting Reverbs On 808s A Meme?

You can run reverbs especially reverbs with a high pass filter on a auxiliary/return track and send it to your 808 which would basically be running in parallel. Pros like DJ Dahi, Mike Dean, etc do this all the time especially on synth bass for an atmospheric approach but not out of necessity. I guess the meme is running the reverb right on the 808s insert track I guess.

----

I'm going to say whoever is telling you to put a whole whack of ultra low frequencies into a kick drum (stuff around 50-60Hz) is giving you bad advice. Not if you want big booming basslines as well. You really have to pick one or the other, and in DnB it's the basslines that rule at the very bottom end. If you really want that bass out of your kickdrum, then you're going to have to sacrifice it from your bassline.

The only other trick you could do, would be to sidechain a compressor, or multiband compressor, to your bassline, and use the kick drum as a source. That would allow you to keep all of that nice juicy bass in all your instruments, but it's probably going to get messy, and sort of confusing to the ears.

A good mid bass thump in a kick drum for DnB goes a long way.

---

Try Airwindows plugins (free). Specifically: Air2 for high frequency, density for thickness, and drumslam for punch.
----

In dnb, especially older stuff, they’d filter the percussions (a slowly descending bandpass usually) to get “that” sound.

You can use ghost snares, hats, percs, the recording of you slapping a rats ass (see: koan sound)

It’s about the filters and the shuffle/swing.

And compression.

---

WikiLoops has really great drum loops.   WikiLoops lets you down load one loop per day for free.  Cymatics has free samples, and I know they have lots of 808 samples, tons of them.  Yurt Rock too, but Yurt Rock is harder to get free stuff from.  But they give out free stuff at times.

---

On the podcast tape notes— SG Lewis speaks about adding some high-passed distortion to his bass as many people listen to music today on AirPods/headphones. May not be a solution but something to think about


id: 166587b254024192b472c4acd7321f32
parent_id: f801c5f8f9df468892d0206c2fadb462
created_time: 2023-02-18T17:43:58.194Z
updated_time: 2023-05-06T13:37:24.799Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 44.14919500
longitude: 10.38806667
altitude: 439.5000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1676742238193
user_created_time: 2023-02-18T17:43:58.194Z
user_updated_time: 2023-05-06T13:37:24.799Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
type_: 1