Diced

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attention_restoration_theory



I'm thinking about making a free app for people with ADHD

I want to make a task managing app to help with my ADHD. I don't currently have a design for it yet, but these are the ideas I have for it so far:

* The app always has the current time
* You can create tasks and add the time it should take to complete them.
* You should be able to automate adding tasks everyday, or a certain day of the week. Like "Mop floor" set to "Every Monday".
* A way to see if you are on schedule with the tasks which need to be done.
* An algorithm that can prioritize tasks based on a set timeframe. For example, it could sort tasks by the largest tasks that can be completedwithin an hour.
* Compare how long a task took with the estimate given.

I know that there are already some ADHD apps out there, but most of them you have to pay for. I've even seen some where you need to pay for a subscription! I want to open source this app so that it can be free, easily accessible, and hopefully maintained by the community.

Are there any other features that would be useful for an app for ADHD?

Edit: Thanks for all the replies everyone! I see that something everyone is asking for is a gamifacation system. If anyone has any ideas on gamifcation let me know.

---

https://www.reddit.com/r/ProductivityApps/comments/12wt1qx/looking_for_an_app_that_supports_organizing/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=android_app&utm_name=androidcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button

I have found that being more disciplined about doing anything - work, chores, home projects, habits, fun activities, etc., are related to identifying your motivation for doing that thing. Habits we intentionally want to develop are particularly interesting because we make the conscious decision to try and develop that habit, so why is it so hard?

For myself, I have found that taking a top-down approach to developing habits helps. It takes a little bit of time to **concretely** define some of these things, but my rate of completing habits/tasks is much higher - including things that I don't necessarily want to do (chores) because I remind myself that doing those things is serving something more important to me.

First, identify your personal values, whatever they are (family, health, creativity, compassion, etc.). Write each personal value down and a description about what it means to you, providing details and context as to why it's significant to you. This brings clarity to you later when you need a reminder of why it matters or why you have a particular goal/habit.

Second, for each value that you've listed, identify some goals that are aligned with that value. Maybe it's one goal. Maybe its ten. They may change over time as well. Write each of the goals down, a description for the goal and its intended outcomes, and break it down into a SMART goal if you so feel inclined.

* Specific - details on exactly what you want to achieve with your goal. This should be clear and concise (e.g., lose 15 pounds).
* Measurable - how you will track/measure your progress toward your goal.
* Achievable - given your current resources and constraints, is this goal realistic and achievable? Consider the time you have, finances, skills, or other resources you may need to achieve the goal.
* Relevant - double check yourself to make sure that the goal is still aligned with the value and overall life objectives
* Time-bound - specify a deadline or time frame for the goal (e.g., six months, end of the year, etc.)

Third, for each goal, identify a habit or two or three that serves that goal. These habits should be broad in scope and not well defined (at the moment) and should align with the goal/value associated with it. For example, if one of our values is "Health", we may have a goal of "lose 15 pounds in six months". Then a habit that is broad in scope could be "exercise".

Fourth, identify three activities that serve that habit. For our exercise example, these activities could be "walking", "weightlifting", and "dancing".

Fifth, take these three activities and break them down into three different levels, with Level 1 being so easy you can do it on the worst day of your life, Level 3 being an elite accomplishment, and Level 2 being somewhere in between. *(Note: I've forgotten where I get this idea from originally, but if I find the source, I'll link to it)* For our example:

* Walking
   * Level 1 = walk the length of the driveway
   * Level 2 = walk for 15 minutes
   * Level 3 = walk for an hour
* Weightlifting
   * Level 1 = one set of pushups
   * Level 2 = 15 minute circuit
   * Level 3 = 60 minute session
* Dancing
   * Level 1 = dance for a minute
   * Level 2 = dance to 3 songs
   * Level 3 = dance to 10 songs

Pick any one (or more if you're motivated) of those nine activities, and if you complete it, consider it a success in doing the habit. And now we are closer to our goal which serves our values. And it's a minimum of nine activities because you may have multiple habits of serving the same goal.

Like I said before, it takes some time to think through this, but it should because how you spend your time is important and you want to make sure you're spending it well, so it's worth the effort to make sure that the small things you do everyday are aligned with the things you want to accomplish in life and your values. This approach also provides you with intrinsic motivation - you start to do it because you find joy in doing the thing because you know it's aligned with who you are, rather than trying to have some sort of outward validation for doing the thing. And at the end of the day, we are all still human and we'll fumble and miss a day, and that's OK.

id: 26633f97787b461fa5fd7cf1bcb77740
parent_id: b8fab0a95bda43df9afd044331b4359e
created_time: 2023-04-24T14:24:33.492Z
updated_time: 2023-05-28T01:35:17.248Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 44.14923667
longitude: 10.38778500
altitude: 471.3000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1682346273425
user_created_time: 2023-04-24T14:24:33.492Z
user_updated_time: 2023-05-28T01:35:17.248Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
type_: 1