EQ

https://www.whippedcreamsounds.com/audio-spectrum/

There is no mid/side option in ReaEQ, REAPER's stock EQ. However, in ReEQ (which is a separate plugin you need to download), there is a mid side option. You can [download ReEQ here on the REAPER forum](https://forums.cockos.com/showthread.php?t=213501). It's at the bottom of the first post. You can also install it using the ReaPack plugin if that's something you're interested in. 

To enable mid/side processing in ReEQ, first create a point by double clicking on the empty window. Change the 'stereo' option in the box that pops up on the bottom of the window to 'mid' or side'.

The general rule for equalizers — and for other effects, in general — is listen carefully and don’t overdo it. If your channel sounds good when you play it solo, doesn’t interfere with other channels in the mix, then it won’t have to be treated with an EQ.

The foundation of EDM is rhythm, so start from there.

Use a high-pass filter to achieve clarity on kick drum or bass, by cutting everything below 40-50 Hz — this rule also applies to a whole mix!
To emphasize the low-end, make a shelving boost of about 80-100 Hz. This is also a frequency that is important for the bass line, which is why many producers use side-chain compression, so that the bass and kick drum can be heard clearly at the same time.
In case your mix sounds too “boomy” or “muddy”, you should consider lowering the range around 200-250 Hz.
The range between 300 and 600 Hz can sound a little bit “boxy” if you boost it, so be careful with that.
If you want your bass line to stand out, boost its channel around 700-800 Hz.
Bringing out the range between 1 and 4 kHz will give presence to your keyboard or synth parts, add clarity to vocals, as well as the higher harmonics of your kick drum and snare.
Cutting 5 kHz makes your sounds appear more distant, so it can be useful if you want to achieve that. Boosting this range will make percussive instruments really stand out.
When you mix vocals, chances are that, in some stage, you will probably have to cut between 6–8 kHz to reduce sibilance.
Everything above 10 kHz adds “air” to your channels or mix.
2. Using Compression
Reducing dynamics (the difference between loud and quiet parts of the track) is probably what you want to achieve with your compressor of choice. After all, it’s one of the main characteristics of EDM production approach. Compressors are widely used on effect chains of individual tracks, and on final mixes during the mastering process.

Be careful with attack and release time. if you set your compressor to attack fast, you will lose some of the transients on your beats. The ratio function serves to apply the amount of compression. For example, if you set it to 4:1, every 4 dB of your signal will be reduced to 1 dB—when the signal reaches above the set threshold.

Don’t be afraid to experiment with the threshold function. If you set it too low, it will cause the “pumping” of your track. But maybe that is what you want to achieve: excessive compression, which was considered undesirable in the past, is now a very popular effect in electronic music

id: 41a11913e5464e1dade446d43b1ffad9
parent_id: f801c5f8f9df468892d0206c2fadb462
created_time: 2023-02-20T00:19:19.067Z
updated_time: 2023-04-04T09:40:47.174Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 44.14919500
longitude: 10.38806667
altitude: 439.5000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1676852359064
user_created_time: 2023-02-20T00:19:19.067Z
user_updated_time: 2023-04-04T09:40:47.174Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
type_: 1