Tweeters post

In the music room initially I had a pair of reasonable-quality Tannoy monitors and a sub-bass box. Was very clean. 

But I occasionally like to play things loud. Soon blew the tweeters. I didn't have much money at the time, so temporarily replaced them with some dirt cheap piezo drivers. It was usable, but the quality went out of the window.
When I next had the money I replaced the tweeters with some better quality ones.

Then blew the sub-bass.
Longer-term solution needed. So I got a couple of cheap little PA speakers (2-way, with 12" drivers) together with another amp.
This gave me alternatives : high quality or high volume. 
But the high volume version was lacking a bit in the treble. Ah! The piezo tweeters.

So this morning I hot-glued them onto blocks of wood, wired them in parallel with the PA speakers (which is ok for piezos, they're high impedance and simply don't respond at lower frequencies).

Trying that - wow! Sounds *really* good.
Did a quick & dirty test - white noise from Audacity, spectrum analyser (Spectroid) on phone. 

Usually without proper planning, something like this is bound to have at least one big peak or trough in the response somewhere. But this is remarkably flat (thin red line at the top of the chart is averaged). 

So I've unintentionally made my loud alternative pretty good quality! 
I still should replace the driver in the sub-bass unit, but that can wait, it's fairly redundant now.




id: 4bb7e29d55544562a258a960ac51f3c2
parent_id: f801c5f8f9df468892d0206c2fadb462
created_time: 2023-04-04T11:58:15.404Z
updated_time: 2023-04-04T11:58:32.918Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 44.15031167
longitude: 10.38573500
altitude: 541.2000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1680609495326
user_created_time: 2023-04-04T11:58:15.404Z
user_updated_time: 2023-04-04T11:58:32.918Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
type_: 1