Rdf-ext rambling

Hey devs, what would you point to as an example of excellent library docs, and why?

I'm about to start kicking the tyres/writing up RDF-Ext. It's a dev-friendly toolkit for using RDF in browser/node JS, bridging to the fairly opaque/formal RDFJS specs.

Thinking aloud...

I reckon I'm in a very good position to *evaluate* as I've spent a lot of time over the past few years using the RDF model in JS but in a very ad hoc fashion. (Treating a SPARQL endpoint as an API, handling the data in the node/browser code in a domain-oriented fashion, without a local generalized RDF data structure). I've explored many practical uses of kit like this and significantly, know the pain points.
I have looked at RDF-Ext in the past, but it was lacking in places and very much in flux, so I held off committing to it. Looking now, all the key parts are complete and the important bits are stable. In short, it's become must-have.

But here's the rub: I don't know the best approach to documenting it. Sure, trying it out in a variety of scenarios (and taking lots of notes) is a good starting point, but then how best to present what I discover?

It pains me to admit it, as someone who made a living for a decade with a very similar activity - working on tech books - but I feel a bit clueless about what to aim for here. It's so open-ended.

Many of the people likely to benefit from RDF-Ext will already be familiar with RDF, or at least the linky side of the web and/or general HTTP and/or graph DBs. Docs for them alone would write themselves. 

But it absolutely must also be approachable from all webdev directions. It's potentially a great tool for backend system builders, DB people, folks used to Express.js, JSON-based APIs etc. But I think a key demographic, and likely the most difficult to address will be the browser devs, all the way to UI/UX, especially those who've invested a lot of time in one of the frameworks (React, Angular etc). There's minimal cognitive cost to trying something viewed as novel with vanilla JS, but where there's a strong methodology in place it may well seem a stretch.

Rambling...

Ok, by way of contrast : with the books the scope was very well-defined : you have the subject matter (eg. the first I worked on was server-side Java) and level (intermediate/advanced), from those you can picture the target audience (server-side devs experienced in other languages + Java devs who only know local/client apps).
The medium was print, that pins down a lot. Direction came from very experienced editors & collaborators. The process was nicely polished, clear timelines, review cycles & deadlines. I worked for a few different publishers, usually on per-chapter contracts.

Incidentally, Wrox Press were my favourite, mostly because I wound up with a wonderful primary contact Chandima Nethisinghe. Chandy was/is a total professional, but very friendly & ever so encouraging and supportive, would hold my hand through bad patches. 
But another thing I liked about Wrox was their review process. They'd throw an outrageous number of reviewers at you, say a dozen focussed on a single 40-page chapter. They'd attack it like a pack of hounds, you'd revise, repeat until the editor was happy.

They had a big pool of experts to call on (mostly other writers), but if there was something you thought could do with specialist eyeballs, you could nominate people yourself. Reviewing was relatively lucrative for the minimal time it *could* take, but the vast majority did it diligently (although with excessive proof-reading, which wasn't their job!). I tried to take on as much reviewing as I could handle. Even when it was subject matter I knew back-to-front and the reviewing activity was undemanding, it was always really interesting. New angles on the tech, different ways of describing things. And pay comparable to the writing, but less weight on your shoulders.

Initially the sheer volume of criticism was thoroughly demoralising. But very quickly it had the opposite effect. The feedback cycles forced you to correct and improve things at every level, which made for a positive feedback cycles in your head. You got the reward of seeing you'd made a better product, which encouraged you to do better work.

Reminiscing...

The most extreme case of this for me was a chapter I did using Jena, the Java RDF toolkit. I asked for them to approach Brian McBride, Jena's lead, to act as a reviewer. He agreed.

After maybe a month I'd done a first draught^W draft. Crit from the other reviewers was fairly superficial. But Brian knew this field and he & I had known each other for quite a while, so he didn't pull his punches. Tore it to shreds. It nearly brought me to tears, but I could see he was 100% right. So I did a total rewrite from scratch, resubmitted. This was still full of flaws, but after a load more (bearable) cycles it was considered ok. At the end, when I looked back at my first draft it really was rubbish. The final version, of that I was genuinely proud. (Ok, although I did the writing, Brian did the real work there :)

Enough. I'm sure there was something I should be doing...

https://rdf-ext.org/

id: 6e6150ef56bf4dc3bf2926cf8636fac0
parent_id: a9ecb5598893472c947d82c28d45dcdf
created_time: 2023-10-04T12:09:35.442Z
updated_time: 2023-10-04T12:10:07.869Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 44.14936833
longitude: 10.38758667
altitude: 496.6000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1696421375372
user_created_time: 2023-10-04T12:09:35.442Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-04T12:10:07.869Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
type_: 1