id: 73344bd8b8f34a81a05fe29ae161e46e
parent_id: 913a3789d16549698e9e0e35aa3e2131
item_type: 1
item_id: b90d7998a2e1406eba47265c36ca4a25
item_updated_time: 1694787658695
title_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[0,\"shboard \"],[1,\"Request\"]],\"start1\":9,\"start2\":9,\"length1\":8,\"length2\":15}]"
body_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"Very long description next, the question is the TL;DR, slightly expanded question at the end.\\\n\\\n---\\\n\\\nI imagine this is a fairly common setup among individuals/small shops that prefer to control everything themselves rather than rely on what a hosting provider has to offer.\\\n\\\nSo, I have a remote virtual server running Ubuntu (cheap end of Linode) for some personal content, a lot of services - mix of  standard stuff and some experimental/in-progress things of my own design. It's not commercial in the usual sense, but I'm a freelance coder and this is my presence online, so it must work!\\\n\\\nI talk to it through ssh/sftp, often using GitHub as an intermediary. (Edit in VSCode locally, commit & push to GitHub, pull on the server. Very convenient, bonus is the off-site backup).\\\n\\\nI've got Apache in front for http(s). This delivers static content and proxies to the other services, running on different ports.\\\nThe services are started etc. with systemd.\\\nThey use a bunch of different engines : nodejs (some through nginx), Python, bit of PHP, there are even a couple of Java things with embedded HTTP servers I wrote maybe a decade ago.\\\n\\\nWhat brought the question up is that I was running Apache from XAMPP (longer story). IMHO, avoid like the plague unless you're *absolutely* certain all you'll ever need is basic Wordpress.\\\n\\\nIt's been a nightmare to manage my kind of stuff. After the latest breakage I grasped the nettle and have been migrating to bog-standard Apache (regular Apache conf seems a walk in the park after XAMPP, go figure).\\\nI *thought* I'd finally got everything up & running last night. This morning used Joplin notes, which I have synching through WebDAV on the server. It gave me a 404.\\\n\\\nMost of the services will expose a page somewhere accessible over http/https, so my minimal homemade solution would be to do a GET on each of a list of URLs, check for a 200.\\\nNext would probably have to involve doing POSTs and/or PUTs & GETs to check changes. Then there are a few other protocols - mail bits, WebSockets... So a ready-made solution would be nice.\\\n\\\nSorry that was so long, my lousy organization of this server has been bugging me for so long, once I started typing it all came out in an emotional flood...\\\n\\\n----\\\n\\\nI'm looking for something that can get a useful distance down this list :\\\n\\\n* open source & extensible\\\n* very easy to deploy, configure, operate (quick summaries) & maintain\\\n* ok/not ok on URLs\\\n* end-to-end service checks via HTTP\\\n* System level : systemd statuses, logs, processor usage, disk space ..?\\\n* bonus : traffic measurement & charting\\\n\\\nAny suggestions?\\\n\\\n\\\n\\\n\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":2604}]"
metadata_diff: {"new":{},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2023-09-15T14:54:27.510Z
created_time: 2023-09-15T14:54:27.510Z
type_: 13