id: 78e9666fcb154368b33dc3bf4c2113a3
parent_id: b06fd1ce1d624684a481d4a5a7c319a6
item_type: 1
item_id: 1b1697cc77f647eba5007d3b96954198
item_updated_time: 1675788359195
title_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[0,\"ying adv\"],[1,\"ice\"]],\"start1\":2,\"start2\":2,\"length1\":8,\"length2\":11}]"
body_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"Budget buys, my experience\\\n\\\nA couple of days ago Ok-Commission-5296 asked about getting something $250-300 range. \\\n\\\nAs a total beginner, a year ago, hadn't a clue. Asked Silvano, who is the landlord of my favourite bar, also the conductor of the local Alpine Filarmonica orchestra, lots of clarinets. I was hoping he knew someone had an old one to sell, but nah. (It should be noted that rural Italians really don't do secondhand anything). He recommended getting a Chinese one to start with.\\\n\\\nI did that. Not unreasonable advice, was good enough to get started. Once I'd figured out reeds are important, got reasonable sounds.\\\n\\\nA year later (just gone) my girlfriend asked me what I wanted for Xmas. I went on eBay, found a Buffet Crampon B12 for €100 - that!\\\nObvious risk buying from eBay, but looked ok. \\\nTurned out to be wonderful.\\\n\\\nBut, the mouthpiece, not exactly too dented or worn, still made me wonder.\\\nFollowing advice (mostly from here) I impulse-bought a new Yamaha 4C from Amazon.\\\nJust yeah!\\\n\\\nI was struggling a bit with reeds. Ignorance, lack of experience. But still went from 2.0 to 2.5. But the consistency, eek. Someone here said the plastic ones are ok. So I got a Legere 2.75 (not cheap, plan ahead). Clarion got easier.\\\n\\\nThat was usable, just (high pressure), on the Chinese. On this Buffet, much better.\\\nBut the Buffet mouthpiece, the 'thumbnail' part, right at the tip, ever so thin. In comparison the Yamaha mouthpiece has a relatively wide area. The gap about the same, ~1mm. The curve is also much closer to that of the reed. Something for it to hit against! \\\nNotably less air required. I'm still adjusting, but my attempts at altissimo seem a lot more reasonable now.\\\n\\\nNo way I'm going to be skipping to being professional any time soon. But for someone that wants to enjoy the thing without paying megabucks, I reckon I've finally landed on my feet.\\\n\\\nNet-net, I'd recommend exactly what I did (a year in). Good quality brand (Buffet, Selmer, Yamaha..?). Secondhand. New mouthpiece. Think about reeds.\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":2028}]"
metadata_diff: {"new":{},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2023-02-08T15:55:11.747Z
created_time: 2023-02-08T15:55:11.747Z
type_: 13