Clarinet

Cheap/good mouthpieces :
fobes debut
behn overture


So something no one has touched on yet is that a squeak is just your reed vibrating at a different partial in the harmonic series your fingering is setting up. I’m going to try to give you a very brief primer on the harmonic series and the clarinet, but TL;DR you should practice squeaking on purpose to deal with this issue. 

Every fingering - every possible length of tube you can blow through on a clarinet - will produce a vibration in the air that has a harmonic series of overtones, or possible vibrations in certain ratios of multiples over the lowest vibration. Clarinet is unique from other instruments in that it skips every other overtone in the harmonic series due to the acoustical physics of a cylindrical bore. As an example, if you play middle C, the next partial is clarion G, which most people play by just adding the register key. This is also why altissimo fingerings often ask you to lift the LH index finger - it acts as another register key and allows the note to jump to the higher partial more easily. (Technically, clarion G is a “squeak” on middle C that the register key facilitates - it makes it way easier, but you don’t actually need the register key to play it! We’ll go over this more in a second.) 

So, a squeak is caused by having the reed vibrate fast enough that it jumps to a different partial. This can happen for a number of reasons: the reed could be soft, the embouchure could be tight, tongue position could be different, plenty of things. Additionally, these reasons can be accidental or purposeful - the clarinet doesn’t care, it’s just going to play what you put into it. 

You can use this to your advantage by adjusting your voicing, your tongue position, to reach higher partials without needing to change your fingering. When you’re normally playing, you should normally be thinking of certain vowels, right? Low E will be “ooooo” and as you ascend higher in the clarinet’s range your vowel should transition through “aaaa” around long B and get up to “eeee” when you start to hit the altissimo range. (As you go higher, your tongue starts needing to do funky things that will never come up in normal speech - top C, the one an octave above thumb C, should be a sort of “double hump” shape, and I would recommend you search Google to find the ultrasound pictures of those tongue shapes.) You can, however, manipulate your voicing to a higher shape to jump partials on purpose. 

Try this: play open G, then try to squeak it on purpose to altissimo D (the next possible note in that harmonic series on clarinet). You might want to grab a tuner to just check that you’re hitting the right note, though it’s ok if it’s not perfectly in tune. Jump back and forth between G and D until you’re comfortable doing that, then try jumping from G to D to B (which should be the next clarinet partial above D on an open fingering).  Once you feel comfortable doing this exercise on open G, try moving up through the throat tones on this, and then start moving down to F# and lower - this should get harder as you get lower, because your voicings will need to improve to continue doing this exercise on longer tube lengths.  Keep practicing this and you should find that you’re more aware of your tongue and throat, and that you squeak a lot less. I know this was long, but hopefully it helps.

id: 90900cd47db5467598953db55a42a585
parent_id: f801c5f8f9df468892d0206c2fadb462
created_time: 2022-11-14T14:51:09.822Z
updated_time: 2022-11-22T15:57:33.566Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1668437469819
user_created_time: 2022-11-14T14:51:09.822Z
user_updated_time: 2022-11-22T15:57:33.566Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
type_: 1