id: 9845d4fe25b648359b704cefd668a239
parent_id: 
item_type: 1
item_id: 085cafa49acc463bbca2c7bd08a85bb9
item_updated_time: 1668436968545
title_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"Dubstep\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":7}]"
body_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"Best advice I can give from an absurd number of hours obsessing over everything related to gain staging/gain structure, etc.....it is actually very simple and I believe someone else has already even mentioned it....I make Bass Music primarily Wonkier Dubstep, Halftime-type shit, and occasionally veer into Trap-step-ish type beats but this particular approach to leveling/balancing should work with most electronic genres, I assume.\\\n\\\n&#x200B;\\\n\\\n1. Level and set your \\\"anchor\\\"/\\\"rhythm section\\\"/\\\"groove\\\" - basically choose your main kick, main sub, and main snare/clap sounds then do the following.:\\\n2. Start by solo-ing either your Kick or Sub (I'd recommend starting with Sub\\\" and set the level to where the RMS is as close as you can get it to a reference track that you personally like.\\\n3. Loop a 4 bar section of the solo'd Sub then unmute your Kick so only the Kick and Sub and playing. At this point you will want to set the level of of your Kick as well as use whatever method of ducking/sidechaining/fading audio such that as your Kick pitches  down to its fundamental it seamlessly transitions to your Sub note. I highly recommend downloading any kind of Wavescope/Oscilloscope so you can verify this is setup correctly. Picking good samples is crucial, obviously, but even with good samples you will often find the need to either slightly pitch up/down your Kick/invert its phase to to get a nice clean Sub/Kick relationship.\\\n\\\nExamples:\\\n\\\nSub/Kick In Phase: [https://ibb.co/9wm3NbR](https://ibb.co/9wm3NbR)\\\n\\\nSub/Kick Out of Phase (inverted phase of kick): [https://ibb.co/LrSVmGn](https://ibb.co/LrSVmGn)\\\n\\\nKick/Sub waveforms: [https://ibb.co/wWQ0X2L](https://ibb.co/wWQ0X2L)\\\n\\\n&#x200B;\\\n\\\nOnce you have your levels set for your Kick and Sub, \\\"chunk\\\" these 2 together and treat them as one unit or \\\"sound\\\" that you will now solo in conjunction with the Snare. Set the snare level accordingly and then chunk these 3 framework sounds as your anchor and level everything else around this....While its probably best to use a reference to set your initial sub or kick level. As long as you are working in a modern daw thats 32 bit float, it really doesn't matter what your starting level is since you can turn it down or up later with no data loss. The most important thing is to set the level of one element, balance it to a different \\\"main\\\" element and so and so forth. Apologies if this is incoherent, I need sleep bad tonight, but I kinda wanna make a short video on this exact thing because I find it very interesting/useful.\\\n\\\nEdit\\\\*: Also something to consider...I personally try and avoid processing my main kick/snare/sub as much as possible. There's no right answer and a fuckload of ways to make your shit sound good, but I seem to get the best results when I either choose a really well matched kick and snare (or multiple snare layers) and then at most just clip the ever loving shit out of the percussive sounds with no eq, compression, etc on the individual channels..and then maybe a drum buss or glue comp on the drum group (or something similar if your daw isn't Ableton). With the sub I'll low pass it if its a sample or something but if I'm synthesizing it, I'll just make sure it has the exact harmonics I want/need for the tune so I can leave it as unprocessed as possible..although I have been pretty happy lately using the Pultec low end trick where you boost and cut the low bands. There's a ton of free Pultec emulations, I think \\\"Rare\\\" by Analog Obsession is pretty fucking great tho..and totally free.\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":3527}]"
metadata_diff: {"new":{"master_key_id":"","conflict_original_id":"","share_id":"","is_shared":0,"application_data":"","source_application":"net.cozic.joplin-mobile","source":"joplin","is_todo":0,"markup_language":1,"order":1668436956082,"latitude":"0.00000000","longitude":"0.00000000","todo_completed":0,"altitude":"0.0000","parent_id":"f801c5f8f9df468892d0206c2fadb462","source_url":"","id":"085cafa49acc463bbca2c7bd08a85bb9","todo_due":0,"author":""},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2022-11-14T14:51:01.595Z
created_time: 2022-11-14T14:51:01.595Z
type_: 13