id: aed1db835bc643e7804d9ef203e2c87b
parent_id: 
item_type: 1
item_id: d79051156ad146049b2aa647f895c7fb
item_updated_time: 1680627027141
title_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"Gamedev\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":7}]"
body_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"Two years of my hard work paying off: A repeatable path to success for small devs.\\\n\\\nIt seems like most of the discussions and advices for small indie devs center around game loop design, marketing, building hype, and finally releasing the game, gather the huge release-day profit and enjoy the success. At least this was how it was portrayed in Indie Game: The Movie.\\\n\\\nBut in my case, at least, the success came two years later. After following all the pre-release advices, showcasing the game with youtubers and E3 2021 (it was a waste of money tbh), building a sizeable wishlist etc., the release was bumpy, to put it in the nicest way. Then I spent the next two years working like a dog to polish the game, listening to feedbacks, adding new features, offering free content, releasing DLCs. And now, the algorithm gods of Steam seems to take note of the game and finally paying me more than minimum wage for the work :P All jokes aside, I'd like to share my journey here, because I believe what I went through can be pretty repeatable, and is a very healthy addition to the gaming industry. TLDR: just skip to **Section IV** for advices.\\\n\\\n&#x200B;\\\n\\\n**Section I - The Challenges**\\\n\\\nUpon initial release in June 2021, the game was getting 70% review score and a 17% refund rate. Here are all the problems with the game:\\\n\\\n1. A lot of janks that I thought players wouldn't mind, well they do mind. Such as gunfights with enemies who are inside buildings, control scheme, lack of convenient features.\\\n2. A lot of the challenges that I thought players would embrace, well they hated them.\\\n3. A lot of small bugs that I thought players would overlook, well they refunded because of them.\\\n\\\nIt was almost like an awakening - you thought you knew what people want, but you were all wrong. Fortunately, a group of players stuck around, dumping dozens of hours into the game, helped me improve, test, translate, along the entire journey.\\\n\\\n&#x200B;\\\n\\\n**Section II - Customer Support**\\\n\\\nAnd I won these players by offering the best-in-class customer support. In fact my whole day job career was customer tech support, and I simply brought my day job work ethics into my game. I answer every single question in the community forum, fix every bug reported, and if someone gets stuck due to bug or even their own fault, I offer to fix their save game so they could move forward. It was a lot of work. Looking back, I probably released 300+ patches over two years, and I probably worked harder than my day job (oops lol). But I believe my customers (and all gamers) deserve this level of support.\\\n\\\n&#x200B;\\\n\\\n**Section III - Searching for Answer**\\\n\\\nThe thing I have learned from releasing this game, is that \\\"how the gameplay feels\\\" trumps all other aspects in terms of keeping player engaged. If the gamer feels awkward, tedious, or even nauseous while playing, no matter how good the mechanics are or how pretty the graphics look, they can't keep playing. And you get a refund and/or negative review.\\\n\\\nThe biggest problem with my game was the top-down, 3D bird-view controls:\\\n\\\n\\\\- Player had to constantly use Q/E or mouse wheel to rotate camera, even during intense combat\\\n\\\n\\\\- Due to long range-gunfights, enemies tend to be out of sight when they start to engage player\\\n\\\n\\\\- Due to camera panning (similar to how Hatred plays) that follows the mouse, it not only causes motion sickness, but also makes it hard to interact with small objects like ammo on the ground.\\\n\\\nOver the years I attempted numerous ways to tackle these challenges, but with little success. It was only when I discovered the controls of Weird West (thanks to fans who told me about it), I figured out the perfect (or, closest to) control scheme: camera rotates with mouse, and automatically highlighting nearest interactable objects. I took two months to implement both the default and the experimental control methods from Weird West, with my own takes to make it feel even better. I also added full controller support that people actually enjoyed, although it took me half a year of polishing since I never play games with controllers (my thumbs are dumb like door knobs, can't even type text messages well).\\\n\\\nI would say with this single improvement, my refund rate went from a steady 16% down to 10% over the last two months.\\\n\\\n&#x200B;\\\n\\\n**Section IV - The Lesson**\\\n\\\n\\\\- After initial launch, the fight isn't over. It might receive bigger success if you put in time to turn it into a game that draws people in, if it has potential. To judge if the game has potential, some criterias are:\\\n\\\n\\\\-- Is the game mechanics deep enough to encourage players to discuss/argue about min/max and meta?\\\n\\\n\\\\-- Are there players who put in much more time than the intended gameplay length?\\\n\\\n\\\\-- Are there players who are excited about the game and want to help you improve?  \\\n\\\n\\\n\\\\- Make sure the gameplay feels good. It might feel good to you, but to someone new to it, might not. Spend a lot of time finding a way to make the game feel good after receiving brutal feedback from paying customers.\\\n\\\n\\\\- No matter how it's received after launch, don't stop there. If there are any players who put a lot of hours into the game, it means it's worth improving upon. Listen to the feedback especially from those who dump lots of hours into it, and patiently fix the game. If it takes years, let it take years. It's like your child. Raising a child is difficult and painful, but nothing beats the kind of joy you get from it.\\\n\\\n\\\\- After the initial release, you will go through a lot of pain when you see no light at the end of the tunnel, and you will be working your ass off for less than minimum wage, while all you get is negative reviews of constant whining, raging and scolding, days and days of 0 sales, and refunds upon refunds that negates every sale you make. You will have no life, no entertainment, and pretty much play no games except your own. But as long as you know there are folks who really enjoy your game, you should keep going, and keep searching for the right answer.\\\n\\\n\\\\- Treat every paying customer as ~~a vulnerable victim of your scam~~ a friend who needs your help. In fact, whenever they run into a problem, I feel bad, or even guilty. I feel like I owe them a smooth gaming experience, if they trusted their hard-earned money into my product. Don't kill yourself over it, of course, but good customer service is a rare thing in the gaming world.\\\n\\\n\\\\- Indie game marketing is very different from AAA game marketing or mobile game marketing. Your goal is not to convince people that you have a good game. Instead, you are looking for a way to find the people who are into games like yours, and then accurately demonstrate it to them. That's what makes indie game marketing so damn hard. Even if you were a millionaire and you've got hundreds of thousands of dollar to burn in ads, chances are you aren't getting enough returns to cover the cost. The most effective way to market an indie game is word of mouth, because indie games are products of creativity, not products to satisfy certain specific needs.\\\n\\\nAnd by word of mouth I don't just mean \\\"player telling her friends about it\\\". Youtube channels that specialize in indie games is another type of \\\"word of mouth\\\", because the viewers can see it when others are hyped about this game (from reading comments), and seeing that others are interested helps them feel safer about making the purchase. The algorithm gods of Steam is the same - it looks into what people say or do about your game, and if it believes that it can make them more money, it will give you more visibility. I hear a lot of my fans saying, \\\"can't believe I have never heard of this game!\\\" But that's perfectly normal for indie games. You just need one \\\"lucky\\\" break to get out of the slum. I double-quote the word \\\"lucky\\\" because it's not pure luck - it's all your patience and hard work paying off at the end.\\\n\\\n&#x200B;\\\n\\\nLastly, I'd like to leave you with a quote that has always helped me when things looked grim:\\\n\\\n\\\"If you're going through hell, keep going.\\\"- Winston Churchill\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":8059}]"
metadata_diff: {"new":{"master_key_id":"","conflict_original_id":"","share_id":"","is_shared":0,"application_data":"","source_application":"net.cozic.joplin-mobile","source":"joplin","is_todo":0,"markup_language":1,"order":1680627007791,"latitude":"44.14924500","longitude":"10.38810500","todo_completed":0,"altitude":"348.7000","parent_id":"b8fab0a95bda43df9afd044331b4359e","source_url":"","id":"d79051156ad146049b2aa647f895c7fb","todo_due":0,"author":""},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2023-04-04T16:50:27.453Z
created_time: 2023-04-04T16:50:27.453Z
type_: 13