Server Dashboard Request

Very long description next, the question is the TL;DR, slightly expanded question at the end.

---

I imagine this is a fairly common setup among individuals/small shops that prefer to control everything themselves rather than rely on what a hosting provider has to offer.

So, I have a remote virtual server running Ubuntu (cheap end of Linode) for some personal content, a lot of services - mix of  standard stuff and some experimental/in-progress things of my own design. It's not commercial in the usual sense, but I'm a freelance coder and this is my presence online, so it must work!

I talk to it through ssh/sftp, often using GitHub as an intermediary. (Edit in VSCode locally, commit & push to GitHub, pull on the server. Very convenient, bonus is the off-site backup).

I've got Apache in front for http(s). This delivers static content and proxies to the other services, running on different ports.
The services are started etc. with systemd.
They use a bunch of different engines : nodejs (some through nginx), Python, bit of PHP, there are even a couple of Java things with embedded HTTP servers I wrote maybe a decade ago.

What brought the question up is that I was running Apache from XAMPP (longer story). IMHO, avoid like the plague unless you're *absolutely* certain all you'll ever need is basic Wordpress.

It's been a nightmare to manage my kind of stuff. After the latest breakage I grasped the nettle and have been migrating to bog-standard Apache (regular Apache conf seems a walk in the park after XAMPP, go figure).
I *thought* I'd finally got everything up & running last night. This morning used Joplin notes, which I have synching through WebDAV on the server. It gave me a 404.

Most of the services will expose a page somewhere accessible over http/https, so my minimal homemade solution would be to do a GET on each of a list of URLs, check for a 200.
Next would probably have to involve doing POSTs and/or PUTs & GETs to check changes. Then there are a few other protocols - mail bits, WebSockets... So a ready-made solution would be nice.

Sorry that was so long, my lousy organization of this server has been bugging me for so long, once I started typing it all came out in an emotional flood...

----

I'm looking for something that can get a useful distance down this list :

* open source & extensible
* very easy to deploy, configure, operate (quick summaries) & maintain
* ok/not ok on URLs
* end-to-end service checks via HTTP
* System level : systemd statuses, logs, processor usage, disk space ..?
* bonus : traffic measurement & charting

Any suggestions?





id: b90d7998a2e1406eba47265c36ca4a25
parent_id: b8fab0a95bda43df9afd044331b4359e
created_time: 2023-09-15T14:20:36.137Z
updated_time: 2023-09-15T14:20:58.695Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 44.12438167
longitude: 10.41068833
altitude: 392.6000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1694787636058
user_created_time: 2023-09-15T14:20:36.137Z
user_updated_time: 2023-09-15T14:20:58.695Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
type_: 1