id: caec7e81b5354a39b98bf80ce68e0a61
parent_id: b78bfbbe9fe9440982e5d7139b7af180
item_type: 1
item_id: e0f92941711044a9b971de79483e9137
item_updated_time: 1663762279954
title_diff: "[]"
body_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[0,\" least.\\\n\"],[1,\"\\\n\\\n----\\\nnot yet deletd\\\n\\\nHi,\\\nI was wondering if anyone had any suggestions for getting rid of this stuff that has taken over my veg plot (there are ripe tomatoes, peppers & zucchini under the long hair).\\\nPlantnet/Wikipedia tell me it's probably Johnson Grass.\\\nI live in northern Italy (Garfagnana), temperate climate. Usually long hot summers, but 450m altitude says the winters can be very freezy. I think the soil is a bit clay-ish, no idea of pH.\\\nFor the past 20 years my neighbour has dug this patch for me with his little digger in early spring. I go over it with hoe & rake. before planting seeds/plantlets. I think it was the year before last I first noticed the invader here and there. Last year, a few more, and when it was dug over, lots of thumb-sized tubers around (which I removed, as best as I could).\\\nAfter a very hot summer we just had several weeks where it just poured with rain, so I didn't have the will to do anything.  The photo shows what it's like now - the stuff has taken over and is seeding (eek!).\\\nWhat's rather odd is I don't recall seeing it anywhere else around here. Certainly not on other people's veg plots (orti). \\\nI just had an hour pulling the stuff up - very little progress.\\\nI don't want to use chemical herbicides (veg, innit). The plot is on a little field I own, small garden toward the house, neglected mad overgrown jungle the other side (hawthorns mostly) I'm in the process of clearing.  I'm not so dependent on it I couldn't leave it fallow (I could start a plot further up once I've cleared a bit more jungle). But I suspect leaving it wouldn't make it go away...\\\nAny suggestions? \\\n\\\n\\\n\\\n\\\n\\\n\"]],\"start1\":570,\"start2\":570,\"length1\":8,\"length2\":1641}]"
metadata_diff: {"new":{},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2022-09-21T12:16:07.608Z
created_time: 2022-09-21T12:16:07.608Z
type_: 13