Reddit deleted

I'm writing to you about the following submission: https://www.reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/xji4uy/lpt_for_finding_things/. 


I'm writing to you about the following submission: https://www.reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/xji4uy/lpt_for_finding_things/. 


I think it was a suitable post, except I forgot that Americans use the word 'flashlight' for what English people call a torch. Changes the meaning a bit. I might use torch to mean the firebrand a peasant was carrying to Castle Frankenstein, but it doesn't really come up a lot. This side of the Atlantic at least.


----
not yet deletd

Hi,
I was wondering if anyone had any suggestions for getting rid of this stuff that has taken over my veg plot (there are ripe tomatoes, zucchini, aubergines, peppers and potatoes to dig, under the long green hair).
Plantnet/Wikipedia tell me it's probably Johnson Grass.
I live in northern Italy (Garfagnana valley), temperate climate. Usually long hot summers, but 450m altitude says the winters can be very freezy. I think the soil is a bit clay-ish, no idea of pH.
For the past 20 years my neighbour has dug this patch for me with his little digger in early spring. I go over it with hoe & rake before planting seeds/plantlets. I think it was the year before last I first noticed the invader here and there. Last year, a few more of them, and when it was dug over, lots of thumb-sized tubers around (which I removed as best as I could).
After a very hot summer we just had several weeks where it just poured with rain, so I didn't have the will to do anything.  The photo shows what it's like now - the stuff has taken over and is seeding (eek!).
What's rather odd is I don't recall seeing it anywhere else around here. Certainly not on other people's veg plots (orti). But I am a bit lazy about weeding.
Though I just had an hour pulling the stuff up - very little progress.
The plot is on a little field I own, small lawn/flowerbeds garden toward the house, neglected mad overgrown jungle the other side (hawthorns mostly) I'm in the process of clearing.  
Odd again, not sure there's another of these plants anywhere else in these areas, even immediate vicinity. Just on the veg plot. I must be doing something right for it...
I don't want to use chemical herbicides (veg, innit). I'm not so dependent I couldn't leave it fallow (I could start a plot further up once I've cleared a bit more jungle). But I suspect just leaving it wouldn't make it go away.
Any suggestions? 











id: e0f92941711044a9b971de79483e9137
parent_id: 1f5405da6992445392297dd478d5e0a3
created_time: 2022-09-20T20:27:59.519Z
updated_time: 2022-09-21T12:19:41.214Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 44.14929333
longitude: 10.38714000
altitude: 209.6000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1663705679517
user_created_time: 2022-09-20T20:27:59.519Z
user_updated_time: 2022-09-21T12:19:41.214Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
type_: 1