id: ed7d80aeec5c4978a15607ea2ff521de
parent_id: 
item_type: 1
item_id: 2191c66366004315b656059e589efe9c
item_updated_time: 1676836991970
title_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"Cheaper Modules\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":15}]"
body_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[1,\"IMHO the real question is: How Cheap Can You Go?\\\n\\\nAs a response to this discussion:\\\n\\\n[https://www.reddit.com/r/modular/comments/116122r/you\\\\_have\\\\_unlimited\\\\_hp\\\\_but/](https://www.reddit.com/r/modular/comments/116122r/you_have_unlimited_hp_but/)\\\n\\\nThat is a fun idea and the discussion got me thinking. I like to use modules that are smaller and cheaper. I can't even play the other game because I can't afford the expensive things I would put in the rack.\\\n\\\nThus, I'd change the rules to: How cheap can you go to make a cool, or not so cool, modular synth with only 5 modules?\\\n\\\n**VCO:** Cre8audio, Chipz because it's sorta crappy has 2 voices and an LFO and can be found for 50 bucks used.\\\n\\\n**Utilities:** Weird Vector because it's full of unstable joy and costs 50 bucks new. This is all the VCA and Logic I will need for this synth.\\\n\\\n**LFO:** Hampshire Electronics, LFO because it's just a basic unit for about 70 bucks. I need a positive to negative LFO and Chipz doesn't have one. \\\n\\\n**Function Generator:** Spherical Sound, Vortex Generator because it's a poor man's Maths and simpler to use at about 134 bucks on Etsy.\\\n\\\n**Filter:** Tom Evans, Dual Dreadful VCF because it's different and only 140 bucks for two filters in one. Of course you could go even cheaper with a second hand WASP filter, but I like the dual one, which I got used for about 80 bucks.\\\n\\\nThus I can spend only, 50 + 50 + 70 + 134 + 140 = 444 bucks plus some shipping and tax.\\\n\\\nIs this a pretty synth, probably not. Is this an interesting synth to patch up, I think so. Of course, no one is going to limit themselves to only 5 modules. Having spent less than 500 bucks on this you can afford to get whatever little bits and pieces you need to refine this. \\\n\\\nWhat is your low cost synth scenario? I am always on the lookout for cool and cheap gear that no one else seems to care about very much.\\\n\\\nFeel free to change the rules if you need more modules for your low cost rack.\"]],\"start1\":0,\"start2\":0,\"length1\":0,\"length2\":1947}]"
metadata_diff: {"new":{"master_key_id":"","conflict_original_id":"","share_id":"","is_shared":0,"application_data":"","source_application":"net.cozic.joplin-mobile","source":"joplin","is_todo":0,"markup_language":1,"order":1676836976357,"latitude":"44.14919500","longitude":"10.38806667","todo_completed":0,"altitude":"439.5000","parent_id":"f801c5f8f9df468892d0206c2fadb462","source_url":"","id":"2191c66366004315b656059e589efe9c","todo_due":0,"author":""},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2023-02-20T00:19:16.860Z
created_time: 2023-02-20T00:19:16.860Z
type_: 13